# Project1---Team_BigBend

To better understand traffic patterns and how they have changed over the years we pulled traffic data from numerous sources. One source we used was https://data.austintexas.gov/ to pull data from bluteooth travel sensors throughout the city. These bluetooth sensors are able to detect other bluetooth devices in cars and can track the travel time from one station to the next and provide us with a count of unique vehicles on the road at a given time. When a device is identified a random ID is assigned to the car which then enables the sensors to keep track of the vehicle as it 

The origin dataset consisted of over 88 million rows of data collected over the span of 5+ years. For our analysis we decided to take a look at the last three years from 2017 to 2019. Furthermore in order to refine our focus we decided to take a look at a collection of 5 major highways/roads within the city including US183, IH35, Lamar, Burnet, RM2222. Once all the data was collected we grouped the data by roads, year, and day of week. Breaking down the data into smaller groups enabled us to take the large set of data and create a meaningful plot that helped visualize the fluctuating levels of traffic density throughtout the year by day of week. Using this plot we could plot we could then compare traffic incident rates at specific hours to traffic volume and explore any possible relationships between the two. 

Initially after we had loaded the datasets in we discovered large discrepencies between the data from year to year. Furthermore some roads had a lot more recorder than others due to factors such as construction, station malfunctions, and more. The plots created using the initial set of data were misleading and showed a decrease in overall traffic volume over the years as there were more data entries for 2017 than any other year. However to overcome this discrepency we took the total daily traffic records per year and converted them into percentages so that they were more evenly weighted. Following this the plots were more revealing of the fact that traffic volume at peak hours had continued to increase over the years. 
